hey how's it going guys this is Dave -
Dee so I've done a couple of videos in
the past comparing my top picks for
laptops one of the videos was on thin
and light ultra books and then I did a
second video comparing 15-inch gaming
laptops that were around $1000 this
video we're looking at 15 inch premium
gaming laptops so the focus is on
performance pricing tends to shoot up
but it's the same idea we're going to
look at some categories I'm going to
show you my top pick for that category
and show you a runner-up or two all
right so in no particular order the
devices that are in this video first is
the Acer predator 15 this is a sirs
first attempt at a top-tier gaming
laptop and they did a really solid job
it's a little big and the aesthetics
aren't for everyone because it's clearly
a gamer inspired design but performs a
solid and pricing is pretty good
you can configure them with either 970m
or a 980m the next is the msi GSC this
unit is from iBUYPOWER
they're a company that sells desktops
and laptops but they let you customize
and spec them out more than the factory
options so if you're looking for a
particular drive or a memory
configuration or a specific video card
on a laptop they can configure that for
you and they also do other stuff like
thermal pasting and color calibration
for laptops there's a link to their
website below next is the ARS x5 s v5 so
ARS is a subsidiary of gigabyte and they
make their own line of laptops they're
not as well known in North America but
they make some fantastic devices at
competitive pricing this one here is
they're thinner laptop and it comes with
either a 970m or a 980 M then we have
the 2016 razor blade this laptop is
pretty well known it's thin and light
and this year's model is a nice skylake
refresh from last years it has a new
keyboard Thunderbolt 3 some new thermal
management but it's still equipped with
a 970m fortunately pricing has dropped
down from last year so it's a better
value next up is the Alienware 15 highly
configurable you can get this thing
equipped with various CPUs video cards
storage options it's a little thick but
it uses carbon fiber plastics and it's
built like a tank it has awesome thermal
management
and it can connect with the Ellie more
graphics amp to bump up performance if
you want ok the next two are a little
different I would consider them like
bonus entries because there's still
premium but they're premium in a
different way alright the first one is
the Asus GL 5:02 Asus built something
thin light and very powerful but to keep
pricing down the build quality is only
good it's better than a cleave o or a
Sager but when it's compared against
some of the other devices here it's not
as well built but a laptop this thin
with a 980 M and an awesome screen for
$1,700 is pretty impressive and lastly
the Dell XPS 15 so in terms of raw
performance this is the weakest of the
bunch it technically shouldn't have made
the cut because it's only packing the
960 m but the thing is depending on what
kind of games you play 960 m might be
more than enough I've included it
because it's still a very premium laptop
but in this case your money is going
into other features like the build and
the display alright first category is
build quality as I mentioned earlier
aside from the GL 5:02
the build quality on all of these are
very good the 5:02 isn't bad it's just
not as good but the best of the bunch
I'd say is the razor blade it has a
design obviously inspired by the Mac
books but it's also really well built
good material choices very little flex
good screen hinge one hand open a bowl
they did an awesome job on this my only
concern with the build is the black
anodization the a no job is good and it
looks super cool but because it's black
and the metal underneath is silver if
you Nick the surface it's very obvious
get a skin to protect it the matte black
one from D brand looks just like the
stock surface honorable mentions the XPS
15 has some kick-ass build quality and
so does the Alienware 15 that's a device
that at first glance you might not think
anything of it because it's not metal
but the fit and finish on this thing is
fantastic carbon fiber reinforced with
surprisingly little flex on the
materials so because these are gaming
laptops they tend to have lots of ports
and good upgrade ability all of them
have replaceable storage options the x5
s has four storage bays these two
laptops have three storage bays these
two have two storage bays and then these
two on the upper room for one storage
stick now in terms of RAM they're also
all upgradable except for the razorblade
the 16 gigs of ram there is soldered on
but if you're gaming you seriously don't
need more than that
they all have Thunderbolt 3 connectivity
except for the GL v 0 2 in the ARS x5 s
technically all of the laptops with a
Thunderbolt 3 port can connect to the
external GPU the Alienware 15 can
obviously connect to its own graphics
amp the razor blade is the only one that
has official support for the razor core
and that's actually the only external
GPU I have at the time of this video now
I've tried connecting it with all the
devices here and if you fiddle around
enough you can get a connection with the
core but none of them are super solid
the XPS 15 the Alienware 15 and the msi
GSC probably have the best connection
with the core but none of them are
reliable enough for me to just openly
recommend I think it's going to change
soon BIOS updates and drivers are coming
out every day I think it will change
very soon I will address it in a future
video but right now if you're looking to
connect to razor core stick with the
razor blade for 100% reliability now in
terms of my top pick for overall
expandability it's the Acer predator 15
it's got four USB 3s plus a few display
output options Thunderbolt 3 and 3 drive
bays it's pretty decked out and very
expandable the optical drive of them
pops out so you can put in a frost core
for extra cooling my second pick is the
ARS x5 s it has four drive bays for RAM
slots and even more ports but it doesn't
have Thunderbolt 3 now if you're a video
editor and you don't care about
Thunderbolt 3 having 64 gigs of ram with
4 internal drives is pretty awesome for
something this thin sadly none of these
displays do g-sync
internally but they're all very
nice-looking panels the one exception is
a 1080p panel on the Alienware 15 it's
dim and it's not very color accurate so
I highly recommend upgrading to one of
the 4k panels that they offer my top
pick is the 4k eggs or display on the
Dell XPS 15 very bright great color
accuracy and the super thin bezels bring
it to a 10 it's a stunning screen all
around the runner-ups are hard to choose
because they're all really good displays
they're all bright with good contrast
and color accuracy but the 1080p panels
on the Acer predator 15 and the GL 5:02
are particularly nice
now I'm super picky with trackpads and
truthfully none of these are as good as
a MacBook trackpad a couple of them do
come close the XPS 15 if you're running
updated firmware and drivers it's really
solid and the trackpad on the predator
15 and the GL 5:02 are also really good
the alien or trackpad is also nice and
it lights up and that's how as a win in
terms of keyboards they're all pretty
good the GS 60 keyboard is nice it has
SteelSeries lighting and a nice feel but
the layout and arrow keys are a little
cramped my favorite is the Acer predator
15 I don't love the red accents or
backlighting but it has the best typing
experience of the group
there's macro keys up top excellent
typing response and layout and then
combine that with a good trackpad it
gets my top pick another surprisingly
good keyboard is the ARS X 5s that's
pretty thin laptop and yet the typing
experience is on point
okay speakers hands down the Alienware
15 takes the crown the position is nice
on these but it's also the size they're
big and they put it some decent base
despite not having a dedicated sub so
even when system fans kick in these are
positioned in a way that you kind of
don't need headphones when you're
playing games the Acer predator 15 also
has really good speakers it has a small
sub on the bottom so the bass is
pronounced they're not as nice as the
predator 17 speakers or the Alienware 15
speakers but they're so really good
everything else here has respectable
speakers but they don't have a lot to
differentiate between them the
performance on all of these laptops are
really good they're all running the same
i7 6700 HQ skylake processor and for the
most part gaming performance is
dependent on the video card the 970m is
like a 15% jump over the 960 m and then
the 980 m is around a 20% improvement
over the 970 m and obviously it depends
on the game but that's the general idea
the other thing that differentiates the
performance of these laptops is drive
speeds not so much for gaming
performance but just system performance
overall a lot of them are using the
samsung PM 9 v one drives which have
fast read speeds but the write speeds
are kind of mediocre the predator 15 in
the ARS x5 s come with faster drives
which is nice and the msi GSC if you get
it from ibuypower you can choose faster
storage instead of the stock drives and
pay almost the same price all right
let's talk thermals fast CPUs and video
cards produce a lot of heat and when I
run a thermal cam on these laps
they all have similar temperatures maybe
a couple of degrees apart except for the
GL 5:02
that one runs a little hot it's still a
very acceptable temperature by Intel's
guidelines but it's not comfortable to
play games on your lap for fan noise
when they're all under load they all hit
mid 40s except for the ARS x5s that one
is noticeably louder and if you're
gaming you'll want headphones but the
general theme is that thicker laptops
like the Alienware and the predator tend
to have bigger fans so they tend not to
come on as often as the thinner laptops
but when they do spin they're just as
loud now none of these laptops are
budget options or all premium gaming
laptops and in terms of their value
they're difficult to compare because
there's so many variables that differ
between them but there's two of them
that kind of stick out as having
slightly better value than the other
options here and these are the Acer
predator 15 and the Asus GL 5:02 these
two can be configured with a nine ATM
for around 17 or 18 hundred dollars now
battery life on gaming laptops tend to
be pretty short especially when you pack
in some powerful video cards but the
leader of this bunch is the Alienware
1591 watt hour battery and when I have
the screen at around 80% brightness I'm
getting five and a half or six hours of
regular use the predator 15 also has a
big battery at 90 watt hours and that
gives around five and a half hours of
regular use but I put it in second place
because it's a noticeably bigger machine
honorable mention the XPS 15 has an 84
watt hour battery that lasts around 6
hours and it's a really thin laptop but
keep in mind that it's a gtx 960m
okay so depending on what you need or
want in a gaming laptop your top pick is
probably going to be different from mine
but my personal favorite it's either the
Acer predator 15 or the Alienware 15
both of them are essentially perfect for
playing games and editing videos I like
the Alienware 15 more because of its
aesthetics and its size but the predator
15 is a little bit cheaper so if your
budget is tighter maybe look at that one
and if you're looking for something with
thin and light my top pick is the razor
blade 14 hope you guys liked this video
thumbs if you liked it subs have you
loved it it's been nice I'll see you
guys next time